So, what does this have
to do with animations?
Well, animations can be in various states,
and so
you want to define how these states
transition between each other.
Rive does a really good job at this, here,
let's just show you [INAUDIBLE].
Rive is an animation editor, it doesn't
let you build web animations, or
at least not easily,
at least not the way that we're doing it.
But, it shows you how an animation
can be in various states.
So, try and
find a good example here, okay.
So, this is a great example where,
right now we have this arrow
where it's in the idle state and
then it's blending, blending and
then eventually it's complete.
So you can see, each one of
these are different animations.
And so
when you get into more complex animations,
that's when defining your animations
as a state machine really, really help.
So, I want to show you some other examples
of some CSS animations which states see,
here we go.
This is a password model in which we have
a different animation for each state.
We are using data states
in order to do this, and so
we have again, a different animation.
If we type some password,
and click Submit,
now we're in a different state where
we're playing this animation, and
after a while it goes to an error state
where it shows a different animation.
So, I'll show you that
error animation again.
So it's validating, and
then it shows that shake animation which
hopefully by now, you know how to make.
So, we could also enter
the correct password and
it will show a success animation.
So that's just one of many examples
of using different states just for
animation.
All right, so any questions on
how we use data attributes,
data states, data sets,
and setting that state?
Any questions on how we could
use that with animation?
>> For React, aren't CSS variables and
data attributes a little complicated?
>> So the answer actually is no,
they are not really that complicated.
You could definitely use both of them.
And so just to explain,
hopefully I could point-
>> So
the benefit of React is very declarative?
>> Right, so one way to think about
it is that there's the JavaScript
world in which JavaScript
variables they live in there.
JavaScript variables could read other
JavaScript variables et cetera,
functions can read those variables.
And then there's the CSS world where
you can read CSS variables and
all the stuffs, properties and
things like that.
And of course in JavaScript,
you could also write to the CSS variables.
But one thing that's hard to do,
is to actually communicate that
this elements should be in this,
you want JavaScript to provide
that value over to CSS land.
Now, you could do that by adding
class names and things like that.
However, the problem with that,
is that you here and let me just fix this.
The problem with that is
that with class names,
you can't enforce that
you have only one value.
And so, for example,
let me just show this here.
Let's say that instead of
data state loading and
data state success,
we had this as a loading class,
so is loading, and is success.
Okay, so the problem here is
that sure we have classes and
this might feel like the normal
way of doing things.
But now in our app, if we specify
the classes.
One second, let's actually get
rid of these just for a minute.
And so, let's just make sure
that we have our class set up.
All right, so we have the is loading
class, and should the background be white?
Sorry, forgot to put the hand.
Okay, so here's our is loading class, so
if we set this to is loading,
then sure we had the loading state.
If we set it to is success,
we have the success state.
But you could also do this, we could say
is success, is loading, and you would
think that the second one would win, but
it's actually the first one that wins.
Because it's declared later, but
of course that changes depending
on if you move this up here,
then it's a completely different story.
So you just run into cases where
it's definitely possible for
you to have impossible states.
And using data state is no more
complicated than using class, or
in React, it would be class name.
So they actually work
really well together.
And again, you don't have to say
data set dot state in React,
you could just put data
state equals curly braces,
whatever you want inside
of that attribute.
And so yeah, the question was about
like that versus injecting class names.
Again, you cannot enforce that
you only have one class name.
Whereas with the data state,
the way that we're selecting it over here,
is such that we're only looking for
it to be exactly that value.
So, yeah.
All right, any other questions?
Back to your the state machine was your
reason for the capitalization on click or
is that just a naming
convention you like to use?
>> So this is just a convention to make
it really clear that this is an event.
So that when you're
scanning in the machine,
you could be like, that's an event, yeah.
And just to visualize this,
I want to show you something else too.
This is what that state
machine looks like.
So we're on the start state, and
we might be in some loading state,
and then some success state.
So we could just say,
when we click we go to success,
and when we click again, we go to loading.
And, this is also a click over here.
So you could see that
when the user clicks,
we're gonna go from the start state to
the loading state, and then to success,
then back to loading success,
loading, et cetera.
So, yeah.
>> So, are those the only [INAUDIBLE]
the states that are in CSS loading and
start [CROSSTALK]?
>> No, so these are just
custom states that I defined.
>> So, you defined it?
Okay.
>> Yeah, and this would actually be a good
point for me to show
the inflight example that I did.
Because this inflight example,
right now there are no animations,
but you see over here I have
a data state of welcome.
And so each of the screens are shown
depending on what that data state is.
So if I click Get Started,
that's going to change the state.
And so now we're in the home state, so
we have a completely different view.
And so now from the home state,
we could go to movies and to music.
And you can just show this
pop up over here, or overlay,
whatever you want to call it.
So data states are really useful because
now you could actually define states,
which you could use in
CSS to style the app and
to add animations based on
those different states.